# Pneumonia Detection Model

This repository contains code and a trained Keras model for detecting pneumonia in chest X-ray images using TensorFlow. The model was trained on a dataset of chest X-rays from the NIH Chest X-ray Dataset. It can be used to classify chest X-rays as either pneumonia-positive or pneumonia-negative.

The model was trained using a transfer learning approach, where a pre-trained convolutional neural network (CNN) model was fine-tuned on the chest X-ray dataset. The pre-trained CNN model was the VGG16 architecture with weights trained on the ImageNet dataset.

To use the model, simply load it into a TensorFlow or Keras session and pass it a chest X-ray image. The model will output a probability score for pneumonia. A probability score above 0.5 indicates that the model predicts that the image is pneumonia-positive.

## Acknowledgements

### Model Training

This model was trained using Google's Teachable Machine platform. The code for training the model was generated by Teachable Machine and modified to work with TensorFlow 2.0. The code for loading the model and making predictions was also generated by Teachable Machine and modified to work with TensorFlow 2.0.

### Dataset Resources

The dataset is organized into 3 folders (train, test, val) and contains subfolders for each image category (Pneumonia/Normal). There are 5,863 X-Ray images (JPEG) and 2 categories (Pneumonia/Normal).

Chest X-ray images (anterior-posterior) were selected from retrospective cohorts of pediatric patients of one to five years old from Guangzhou Women and Children’s Medical Center, Guangzhou. All chest X-ray imaging was performed as part of patients’ routine clinical care.

For the analysis of chest x-ray images, all chest radiographs were initially screened for quality control by removing all low quality or unreadable scans. The diagnoses for the images were then graded by two expert physicians before being cleared for training the AI system. In order to account for any grading errors, the evaluation set was also checked by a third expert.

This dataset is from Kaggle and can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/paultimothymooney/chest-xray-pneumonia).

## Disclaimer

This model is for research purposes only and should not be used to diagnose or treat any medical condition.
